docs: Add topic for editing default OTEL labels (#17958)
grafana/loki: docs/sources/get-started/labels/remove-default-labels.md

---
title: Remove default OpenTelemetry labels
menuTitle: Remove default labels
description: Describes how to modify your Alloy or OpenTelemetry Collector configuration to demote default index labels to structured metadata.
weight: 400
---

# Remove default OpenTelemetry labels

> When Grafana Loki first started supporting OpenTelemetry, we selected a set of [default resource attributes to promote to labels](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/<LOKI_VERSION>/get-started/labels/#default-labels-for-opentelemetry). As we've continued to learn more about how our customers are using OpenTelemetry, we realized that some of our choices had higher [cardinality](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/<LOKI_VERSION>/get-started/labels/cardinality/) than we'd anticipated. Because of their high cardinality, we no longer recommend the following as default labels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Grafana Loki first started supporting OpenTelemetry, we selected a set of [default resource attributes to promote to labels](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/<LOKI_VERSION>/get-started/labels/#default-labels-for-opentelemetry). We included some labels such as k8s.pod.name to be consistent with the scrape configs we have been suggesting for many years for Promtail and Grafana Alloy. However, Loki has evolved a lot over the years and with the introduction of Structured Metadata we no longer recommend indexing a few of the labels we included in the defaults as they often have very high [cardinality](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/<LOKI_VERSION>/get-started/labels/cardinality/) and Structured Metadata is a much better place for them. We no longer recommend the following as default labels:
```

Reviewer: feel free to work with this, but I just wanted to include a bit of the history as to why our guidance is changing
